first, I believe, and I'm at 1001 Village Drive in
College Station, getting ready to chat with
Professor Emeritus Will Worley, but we're going
to chat about his student experiences. Will, now
would you cast your microphone? That's me. All
right.
Well, to help a future user of this material, would
you give a brief summary of your background and
experiences before you arrived at Texas A&M to
begin your studies here as a student? Where did you
grow up and what did your family do? I'm a native of
Dallas, born in October 18, 1921. I went to grade
school at James W. Fanning High School at Woodrow
Wilson High School. A unique thing about it was
that it had the largest high school ROTC unit in the
country. I was a company commander there in the
high school ROTC, and almost from birth I planned
to come to Texas A&M, which I did starting in
September 1939. Had you ever visited the campus
before you came down here to enroll? Only once. It
was that summer, just before I enrolled. At that
time, they were just finishing the 12
dormitories, and so I lived in dormitory one, a
core dorm. In fact, all the dormitories on the
campus were core dorms then. They also had some
project houses, which were on the campus. Each
county had had a project house that they
sponsored. Let's go back. When you came down to
enroll, how did you get down here and what did you
bring in terms of gear and paraphernalia? I came
with a mother and a classmate who I went to school
with at Woodrow and each of us came with one
footlocker and that was it. She let us out and drove
back home and we were on our own. He got into the
chemical warfare, and I got into the Signal Corps
unit. What was in your footlocker? Well, my mother
bought a new blanket, and we had sheets, and we had
very little civilian clothes because as soon as we
got here, then they would issue GI clothes, a
blouse, a shirt or two, a pair of pants, and then we
had to buy other things. clothing that we need, but
we wore uniforms all the time. We had to have our own
jackets. We did, I think, have a sort of a raincoat,
an all-weather raincoat, and this is all we had. We
also had to get an IES study lamp. This was
required, a good study lamp. Did she let you out
near your dorm? At our dorm, within a little ways,
and then she went on home. What was your first
contact with Aggie
ways, with orders, directives, or anything else?
Well, of course, as freshmen, while we were the
lowest form of life, and the sophomores oriented
us in a hurry, They really were the ones that kept us
in line, and then the juniors and the seniors. But
the seniors monitored the juniors, and the
juniors monitored the sophomores, and the
sophomores took care of us. Now this is September
1939. Yes.
You and your outfit? B Signal Corps. We had three
Signal Corps outfits. practically all of us were
majoring in electrical engineering, which was
fortunate in a way because then you ate together,
you slept together, you went to class together,
you waited on upperclassmen all together. And so
it was a very enduring relationship that has
persisted even now. Describe a typical day of
classes, not a weekend day, but a weekday,
describe a typical day. When did it begin and what
happened and when did it end that fall? All right.
First we got up and went outside and had a yell
practice. Then we came back in and we cleaned up our
room and then we cleaned up an upperclassman's
room. And this was until about seven o'clock when
we woke up our upperclassman. It so happens I was
the room orderly for the company commander and his
Then we fell out for a mess, and we marched the mess
from dormitory one up to the other end of the dining
hall, and we sat next to an upperclassman, and we
gave him meal service, which meant we waited on him
while he sat at the table with him and be sure that he
had everything wanted that was on the table. And
usually they ate, and then they left, and we ate at
the same time, but they started eating before we
got to eat. All right, and then classes? All right,
then, of course, we went back to the dormitory and
finished up cleaning our own room. Usually
classes started at 8 o'clock, so then we went to
class till noon. We came back to the dorm, and then
we marched a mess again. and then classes in the
afternoon, and then we marched to Mass. In the fall
semester during the football season, we had Yale
practice four times a week, Monday after supper,
Tuesday, and then Thursday, and then Friday
night. And we had Yale practice in front of the
YMCA. The band was up at the top of the steps, and the
Yelp leaders in front of them, and the freshmen on
the sidewalk, the sophomores and the juniors in
the street, and the seniors behind the
underclassmen. So this lasted about 30 minutes.
And then the freshmen needed to run back to the
dormitory and get there before the sophomores got
back. And we had a little Yelp practice there. And
then at 7.30, we went into our room and studied
until 10 o'clock. And then we're supposed to go on
to bed by 11 o'clock, so that was the day. If you had
any time during the day not scheduled for classes
or any other activities, where did you spend that
time? We were supposed to come back to our
dormitory and be available for errands for the
upperclassmen. Did you do that or did you go off to
the library or somewhere? Well, we mostly came
back. We couldn't go in the YMCA. That was for
upperclassmen. They had a bowling alley and they
played ping pong. We could go there on Sunday
morning. That's when they had church services.
Let's see.
Describe some of the incidents that today would be
identified as hazing that you remember from your
freshman and or sophomore years. Well, of course,
hazing, you did run errands. That wasn't the type
of hazing, I guess. But we had bleed meetings. This
is where we got out in the hall with the sophomores,
and the sophomores would bleed at us. You know,
they would gripe at us how sorry we were and that
sort of thing. And then we would have an ass tear,
maybe. Which, of course, using paddles on our
behind. That was the main thing. Did you ever get
paddled for something you didn't do? Well, yeah,
we did this. This is part of it, I guess. I don't
know. But, you know, after a few weeks, we all had to
study. And so this sort of thing kind of died, you
might say, and it settled down to normal routine.
After those first few weeks, I was sure glad I was
here because of the comrades we developed, these
lifelong relationships that we still have
contact with and this sort of thing, and they
didn't have time for us anyway. They had their own
studies to take care of. Now, you were in the new
dorm area? I was in the new dormitory. These were
brand new dorms. There was 12 of them. Let's see.
Did you all refer to fish old ladies in those days?
Oh, yeah. Our roommate was an old lady. And did that
friendship for you, was that a lasting one, your
old lady? Is that what? A lasting friendship? Oh,
it is. We went out to see him in Arizona just this
last fall. He now has had a stroke. And, of course,
he can't drive around, but he can talk fine and
visit pretty well.
Let's see. You had selected your major before you
got here. No, it was a coincidence, but it so
happened. He went to Woodrow Wilson, too. He
finished in January and went to school another
semester. And so we just showed up together. We
were roommates. I'm not sure how it happened, but
Fortunately, he did. When did you select your
major, electrical engineering? Right away. Oh,
yeah. And one of the reasons I did it was because my
father was with Graybar Electric Company. He was
in the electrical business, and it was at his
suggestion, and I just went ahead and signed up for
electrical engineering, and this is what I
finished in. Now, was electrical engineering at
that time thought of as a new discipline kind of out
front on the edge of new knowledge? Well, it was a
state of the art. At that time, it was more power
than electronics. We also had transmission, but
the main job opportunities for us was to go with
utilities go with the telephone company or go with
GE or Westinghouse or Alice Chalmers. They were
all in the areas of power in the telephone company,
of course. And that's where most of our graduates
were going.
Your outfit nickname, what was its nickname? My
what? Your Corps outfit. Oh, it was B-Signal
Corps. Did it have a nickname? Yeah, they sure did.
They all had nicknames. Signal Corps was Signal
Crappers. Engineers were Crapper Builders.
Infantry were Paddle Feet. Chemical Warfare were
Stink Bombers. And Field Artillery was Buggy
Bitches. And Calvary was jock swabbers.
Let's see.
What did you, that first year, what did you and your
friends do when you didn't have anything on campus
you had to do? What did y'all do for fun? There
wasn't much place to have any fun here. They did
have a beer place across from the North Gate, but
that was the only liquor you had in the county. You
might go over and drink a beer. They had the
theater was the assembly hall. This is now where
the All Faith Chapel is, so we could go to movies and
go into brine. They had two movie houses there. The
campus theater opened that year. And we had to
boycott the Bryan Theaters for that reason. I'm
not sure why we could only go to the campus theater.
You mean the students? The students. The
upperclassmen said we're boycotting the Bryan
Theaters, so we didn't go. We had to hitchhike into
Bryan. They did have a bus system, but we never used
it. And they had some taxes. How many nights, on the
average, did you have that you didn't feel you had
to be studying? The only night was Wednesday
night. And this is to go to church. And then
Saturday and Sunday were pretty well free. Did you
go to any church activities on Wednesday night?
No, I didn't. But there were Wednesday night
services available. Oh, yes. On Saturday night,
where did you and your friends usually go? Well,
there wasn't much to do on Saturday night, really.
I remember we hitchhiked. One classmate and I
hitchhiked to Houston to see Gone with the Wind.
But on the weekends, we all took off and most
everybody had to hitchhike. There was only one man
in the outfit that had a car. And of course, the
cars, you had to park in a certain place and leave
them there all week. You couldn't drive on campus
on them. You could get in the car and go into Brown or
something like that.
During any of your years, describe your
hitchhiking experiences. Where did you catch the
ride? Give some examples of pleasant or
unpleasant experiences with hitchhiking. Well,
we had a very definite rule. You couldn't upstage.
For instance, if you hitchhiked north, you had to
go out here to the north gate, and you put your
suitcase down in line, and you worked your way up,
and they took how many? Or you could go into Bryan,
there was a place there. The same way in Dallas, the
same way in Houston. Where was the Dallas place to
catch a ride? It's going out Lamar Boulevard,
about where the soap factory is and this sort of
thing. You couldn't hitchhike any, you couldn't
go any further upstream than that. You couldn't be
an upstreamer. And normally you allowed how long
to go from Dallas to College Station? It's hard to
say. Sometimes you spent on the road all night. Did
you ever have any unpleasant hitchhiking
experiences? No, I really didn't. I've had it snow
on us coming back from Dallas. Usually you tried to
hitchhike probably down 75, which is now 45, to
Madisonville, and you hitchhiked over from
Madisonville or from San Antonio and you'd go up
through Austin that way and come across. You'd
almost have to go and hitchhike across to Hearn
because there just wasn't any traffic straight
across to Austin. I have not yet interviewed
anyone who had a negative hitchhiking
experience. About hitchhiking? In all my
experience, I don't think anybody had any
problems at all. I've not yet found anyone who did.
No? What about some pranks, some good bull that you
remember during your student days, whether you
were involved or not? In what? Describe some good
bulls, some pranks, some jokes that students
played on Sunday. Well, I don't think we were as bad
as some, but what happened was it snowed. So this
was the opportunity then for the freshmen to take
the sophomores, take their clothes off and throw
them in the snow. Well, it hadn't snowed the year
before, so we got to throw the juniors in the snow,
too. Now, did they retaliate? No, they didn't. It
was just good bull, you might say. They put up with
it. Did you all ever have any imaginative
drown-outs or anything like that? Oh, yeah, there
was always drown-outs, particularly some
freshman that you didn't like. He was so adept at
it, he could... His name was Tom Robb, and we've
never seen him since that. I don't know what it was.
He was kind of a negative personality. But, oh, we
had drownouts.
How did your life change your sophomore year?
Compare sophomore Aggie life to freshman. Well,
of course, then we were hazed to freshman, and...
We were still under the juniors and seniors, but we
didn't really get any study out of them
particularly. At the end of our sophomore year,
the juniors picked a best drill cadet. And the
reason for this is that he became the first
sergeant next year as a junior, and then he became
the company commander as a senior. So this was the
steps in which he went through the ranks and this
sort of thing. The,
as a sophomore, though, what, what were you, what
did you do, what were your particular concerns
with the freshmen? Oh, just keep them in line, you
might say. As time went on, the war had started
then, and pretty soon, and by the time I became
company commander, I mean, many of them had left
already, and I just pretty well got a lot of that
stuff cut out. I mean, it's kind of childish, you
might say, immaturity and this sort of thing. And
so these things kind of dropped off. Now, you're
here two years, 39-40 and 40-41? Oh, I stayed until
the fall of 42. I was in my fourth year, but I didn't
graduate. In fact, what happened, When the war
broke out after two years, then we went to summer
school. And so after the third year starting, then
we went all summer school. And so our seniors had
gone to summer camp as part of their ROTC contract
to get their commission. And so then when they
finished four years, Even though they didn't get
their degree, they got their commission and went
on into the service. Up until that time, you had to
have a degree before you got that. And so far as we
were concerned then, we went to summer school all
that summer in 42, and then the fall semester in 43,
we pretty well finished up in December. I didn't. I
went in to get a student. So we got on to OCS. Well,
some of us had their commission, and two of them at
least said, I don't want to go to the FCS. So they
just took direct commissions in the Navy. And so by
that time, so many of them had dropped out of
school. If they didn't have a contract, they were
subject to the draft. And so many of them went ahead
and joined up, particularly as pilots. A lot of
them went in the Air Force, the Wild Blue Yonder and
all that stuff. And this is where my only
classmates that were lost in the war had gone into
the service, and they were killed as part of their
action training. Go back, you got here just as
World War II started. That's right. Were you and
your classmates, did you all, in the fall of 39, did
you all talk much about what was happening in
Europe? Oh, of course, we were concerned, and yet
it still seemed to be remote. It wasn't until we got
into the war in December that we really realized
how serious everything was for us. I presume one of
the big events in the fall of 1939 was A&M football.
Yes, we were national champions. That's 60 years
ago. That's the first time we ever won. It's also
the last time we ever won. I went to the Sugar Bowl.
Describe that trip. Oh, okay. Well, my daddy was in
Houston at the time doing some business, so I rode
the train to Houston, and then he joined me, and we
went over on the train to the Sugar Bowl game, and we
went to the Sugar Bowl game together, stayed
together over there, and then we came back, and we
came on back home. So, oh, we found a room there
somewhere, and then ate at Antoine's, I think.
It's still there. And that was the extent of it, and
it was a nice trip. Did you wear your uniform? Oh,
yeah, I wore the uniform. In fact, we wore the
uniform all the time. Once you got home, you'd get
out of uniform, but in general, you always
hitchhiked in the uniform because it was easier to
get a ride. At the Sugar Bowl game, I presume that
y'all, all kinds of Aggie traditions of standing
up and yells and all of that, that was a Oh, yes, this
was current then as we stood up during all the
games, but out-of-town games, it depended on the
size of us, whether the rest of the crowd would let
us stand up or not. You don't recall what the ticket
cost, do you? What, what? The Sugar Bowl ticket. I
wonder what it cost. I don't know, but I've got a
program from that game. A couple of dollars, I
imagine. The... Did you get acquainted with any of
the heroes of that football team? Okay. At the
second semester of my freshman year, I took
Chemistry 102 under Tom Harrington. I was in his
class, and the guy that sat right next in front of me
was Ernie Pannell. Pannell. He was a tackle. And he
was taking freshman chemistry. Here he was, a
junior. So I kind of got acquainted with him. But
that's really, I didn't have much acquainted with
him. Because they all lived in Domitory 12. This is
the athletic dorm. So that's where the athletes
lived. But officially, they were in the Corps?
Well, they were all in the Corps. And they wore
their uniforms to class. Oh, yeah. Describe
Professor Harrington and his course and Describe
him as a teacher and a faculty member. Well, of
course he was a good instructor. At that time he was
a prof, and later on that he moved on up. But he
didn't, you've got three times a week in a small
classroom, once a week in the large lecture room.
Once in a while he would lecture there, but usually
it was a more senior professor would lecture in
chemistry. I can't think of his name now, but
anyway. Did you all have a nickname for Dr.
Harrington? I can't remember that, no. Most profs
did have one, though. My own electrical
engineering profs all had nicknames. Every prof
on the campus almost had one. Share some of those.
Well, there was Dutch Dillingham, because he was a
Dutchman. There was Rabbi Markle. He looked
Jewish, so they called him Rabbi. Pappy Foraker.
Firecracker Road, Bear Tracks Bolton, and a
four-acre son became the dean of the business
administration. And he came back for this reunion
when I had all the signal core over here to the
house, and so he and his wife came over and we had a
real nice visit. He was also honored with a
scholarship, and also his wife. Her father was a
civil engineering prop, and he was known as Shaky
Orr because he had a trimmer. But anyway, he came
back for that, and they asked me to talk about the
father, and Foiker was so nice to me afterwards.
And then he came over here. Well, of course, all
these guys that had the daddy in class, And so they
told lots of stories about his father and this sort
of thing. And he was on the golf team while he was
here. And he said when he was a kid, he would come
over and sit on the steps of Bolton Hall until his
daddy finished class for the day. And then he would
go home with him because he lived off campus. And he
just died in the past year of pneumonia. Describe
where most of your classes were held. What
buildings? Of course, Bolton Hall was electrical
engineering. Next door to it is mechanical
engineering, Fermier Hall. And then the academic
building is where we had most of all of our other
courses. Civil engineering was across from
Enagle Hall. That's where civil engineering was.
And then the mechanical engineering had shop
building next door. And so we had our steam lab, our
lab courses over there, a machine shop, and this
sort of thing. So most all of them were right there
in those buildings right there. The chemistry was
down in the... Chemistry was in its building, of
course. And physics. And physics was over in its
building. What about math? And math was in the
academic building. All the courses were in the
academic building for math. and for English and
for history and for government. What about some
English teachers? English? Well, there's old
Brooks Cofer's daddy, which we called Dusty
Cofer, John Paul Abbott. What was his nickname?
John Paul Abbott, he just went by that, yeah. But
then there was, for history, was a guy named Count
Segarra. Segarff was a Hungarian, I believe, but
anyway, he was called Count Segarff. And I
remember one day, this guy was quoting from the
history book, and he quoted from it, and he says,
where did you get that? I says, from the history
book. He says, well, throw it out the window. So the
guy threw it out the window. Yeah, of course, the
egg. They were all good profs, I felt like. They
really were. The math, I had Klippel way back there
and people like that. Describe
the routine of typical Aggie classes. How did the
students behave? How did the faculty member
conduct the class and so forth? I can never
remember any disturbance of any kind in any of
those classes, yeah. What if a student went to
sleep? Did a student dare go to sleep in class? I
guess they did. I don't remember. I don't think I
did. Was the faculty available out of class if you
wanted to go talk to them? I can't remember. I
didn't use them that much. Really, it's
surprising. Most of the faculty and staff lived on
campus, didn't they? Well, I'd say a smaller and
smaller percentage, because in 1939, the board
said we've got to get all these houses off campus,
and by 1942, they would all be moved off. So this is
the way it turned out. Because when I interviewed,
when I chatted with Henry Gilchrist, he told me
that in 1937, when they arrived, the A&M
Consolidated School District was about to finish
their new building on the south side of Jersey
Street and move it off campus. In 1939, they were
still in Pfeiffer Hall and the Music Hall. And
within the next year, they had moved over to what is
now George Bush Drive. As you look back on your
student academic days, What were the emphasis,
what was the emphasis for you as an electrical
engineer? What were they preparing you for? Oh, it
was mostly power. You had a course in
communication which would be used both for
telethy and power systems, but by and large we took
the circuits, and in the spring we'd take the DC
machinery, and then AC circuits in your junior
year, and you'd get into transmission, and you
took a course in economics.
The senior year was both machinery courses, and
each one had an extensive lab. And so we really
weren't getting much into electronics at all. We
did have a I liked Donnie's course, but it was all
vacuum tubes, and you could see how limited it was
there. It's unbelievable what's happened. In the
early 1960s, Dr. Bolton and I went to Houston back
for a meeting, and when he got out of the car, he
says, I have seen so much happen in the past 50
years.